DI article overhaul (#36816)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/dependency-injection.md

ASP.NET Core supports the dependency injection (DI) software design pattern, which is a technique for achieving [Inversion of Control (IoC)](/dotnet/standard/modern-web-apps-azure-architecture/architectural-principles#dependency-inversion) between classes and their dependencies.

This article provides information on DI in ASP.NET Core. The primary documentation on using DI is contained in [Dependency injection in .NET](/dotnet/core/extensions/dependency-injection/overview), which focuses on general DI concepts that apply to all types of apps, including apps other than web apps. For Blazor DI guidance, which adds to or supersedes the guidance in this article, see <xref:blazor/fundamentals/dependency-injection>. For information specific to DI within MVC controllers, see <xref:mvc/controllers/dependency-injection>. For information on the DI of options, see <xref:fundamentals/configuration/options#use-di-services-to-configure-options>. Code examples in this article are based on [Blazor](xref:blazor/index). To see Razor Pages examples, see the [7.0 verision of this article](?view=aspnetcore-7.0&preserve-view=true).

> 

Reviewer: in Line 18 verision --> version

The `IMyDependency` implementations shown in the preceding examples were written to demonstrate general DI principles, not to implement logging. Most apps shouldn't need to create loggers, as the preceding examples show. The following code demonstrates directly using the [framework's built-in logging API](xref:fundamentals/logging/index), which doesn't require the registration of a custom service (`IMyDependency`).

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-8.0"

`Pages/LoggingExample.razor`:

```razor
@page "/logging-example"
@inject ILogger<LoggingExample> Logger

<button @onclick="WriteMessage">Write message</button>

@code {
    private void WriteMessage() => 
        Logger.LogInformation("LoggingExample.WriteMessage called");
}
```

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range="< aspnetcore-8.0"

`Pages/IndexModel.cshtml.cs`:

```csharp
public class IndexModel(ILogger<IndexModel> logger) : PageModel
{ 
    public void OnGet()
    {
        logger.LogInformation("IndexModel.OnGet called");
    }
}
```

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range="< aspnetcore-6.0"

## Services injected into `Startup`

Services can be injected into the `Startup` constructor and the `Startup.Configure` method.

> Only the following services can be injected into the `Startup` constructor when using the Generic Host (<xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting.IHostBuilder>):

Reviewer: Do you explain somewhere why only these can be injected?

Author: I wrote up a bit derived in part from @andrewlock's article at ...

https://andrewlock.net/avoiding-startup-service-injection-in-asp-net-core-3/

... and in pert from AI. I added Lock's article to the *Additional resources* section.

See if what's in the section now makes sense and covers it.

services.AddScoped<IMyDependency2, MyDependency2>();
```

:::moniker-end

Related groups of registrations can be moved to an extension method to register services. In the following example:

* The `AddConfig` extension method binds configuration data to strongly-typed C# classes and registers the classes in the service container.
* The `AddDependencyGroup` extension method adds additional class (service) dependencies.

```csharp
namespace Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;

public static class ConfigServiceCollectionExtensions
{
    public static IServiceCollection AddConfig(
        this IServiceCollection services, IConfiguration config)
    {
        services.Configure<PositionOptions>(
            config.GetSection(PositionOptions.Position));
        services.Configure<ColorOptions>(
            config.GetSection(ColorOptions.Color));

        return services;
    }

    public static IServiceCollection AddDependencyGroup(
        this IServiceCollection services)
    {
        services.AddScoped<IMyDependency, MyDependency>();
        services.AddScoped<IMyDependency2, MyDependency2>();

        return services;
    }
}
```

> The following code uses the new extension methods to register the services:

Author: They aren't framework extension methods. They're the ones created by the preceding custom code.

I'll reword this bit.

> The following code uses the new extension methods to register the services:

Author: ```suggestion
The following code calls the preceding `AddConfig` and `AddDependencyGroup` extension methods to register the services:
```
